Add CONTRIBUTING file (#127)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ebpf-profiler: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to opentelemetry-ebpf-profiler

The Go special interest group (SIG) meets regularly. See the
OpenTelemetry
[community](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community)

> repo for information on this and other SIGs.

Reviewer: There are many SIG meetings and over time there will be even more. Maybe [calendar-profiling](https://groups.google.com/a/opentelemetry.io/g/calendar-profiling) or the slack channel [#otel-profiles](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03J794L0BV) could be mentioned for easier access.

See the [public meeting
notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19UqPPPlGE83N37MhS93uRlxsP1_wGxQ33Qv6CDHaEp0/edit#heading=h.4rdgawyis2hd)
for a summary description of past meetings.

## Development

You can view and edit the source code by cloning this repository:

```sh

> git clone https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ebpf-profiler.git

Reviewer 2: For consistency with the instructions that follow:

```suggestion
git clone https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ebpf-profiler
```

```

Run `make test` to run the tests instead of `go test`.

> Additionally, there is a `codespell` target that checks for common
> typos in the code. It is not run by default, but you can run it
> manually with `make codespell`.

Reviewer: There are multiple Make targets. Might be a personal view, but `make codespell` is not important to get started. To start with a project, targets on how to build and how to test are the most important ones, I think.
Otherwise, the question arises, why `codespell` should be mentioned here but not `lint`.
```suggestion
```

## Pull Requests

### How to Send Pull Requests

Everyone is welcome to contribute code to `opentelemetry-ebpf-profiler` via
GitHub pull requests (PRs).

To create a new PR, fork the project in GitHub and clone the upstream
repo:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ebpf-profiler
```

> This would put the project in the `opentelemetry-go` directory in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will put the project in `opentelemetry-ebpf-profiler` in
```

branch to your fork:

```sh
git checkout -b <YOUR_BRANCH_NAME>
# edit files
# update changelog
git add -p
git commit
git push <YOUR_FORK> <YOUR_BRANCH_NAME>
```

Open a pull request against the main `opentelemetry-ebpf-profiler` repo.

Avoid rebasing and force-pushing to your branch to facilitate reviewing the
pull request.
Rewriting Git history makes it difficult to keep track of iterations during
code review.
All pull requests are squashed to a single commit upon merge to `main`.

### How to Receive Comments

* If the PR is not ready for review, please put `[WIP]` in the title,
	tag it as `work-in-progress`, or mark it as
	[`draft`](https://github.blog/2019-02-14-introducing-draft-pull-requests/).
* Make sure CLA is signed and CI is clear.

### How to Get PRs Merged

A PR is considered **ready to merge** when:

* It has received two qualified approvals[^1].

	This is not enforced through automation, but needs to be validated by the
	maintainer merging.
	* PRs introducing changes that have already been discussed and consensus
		reached only need one qualified approval. The discussion and resolution
		needs to be linked to the PR.

> 	* Trivial changes[^2] only need one qualified approval.

Reviewer 2: AFAIK we need two approvals for all PRs, so this should probably be reworded. 

CC: @athre0z

Reviewer 3: Our experience is that opinions about what is trivial or not are different. To avoid friction and potential conflicts, we decided to always require 2 approvals. Especially for trivial changes, getting two approvals should not be an issue. We can also discuss this decision any time on Slack or in a profiling SIG meeting.

Author: I have removed trivial changes.

		dismissed by a [Maintainer] when the issues from the original review have
		been addressed.
	* Any comments or reviews that cannot be resolved between the PR author and
		reviewers can be submitted to the community [Approver]s and [Maintainer]s
		during the weekly SIG meeting. If consensus is reached among the
		[Approver]s and [Maintainer]s during the SIG meeting the objections to the
		PR may be dismissed or resolved or the PR closed by a [Maintainer].
	* Any substantive changes to the PR require existing Approval reviews be
		cleared unless the approver explicitly states that their approval persists
		across changes. This includes changes resulting from other feedback.
		[Approver]s and [Maintainer]s can help in clearing reviews and they should
		be consulted if there are any questions.

* The PR branch is up to date with the base branch it is merging into.
	* To ensure this does not block the PR, it should be configured to allow
		maintainers to update it.

* It has been open for review for at least one working day. This gives people
	reasonable time to review.
	* Trivial changes[^2] do not have to wait for one day and may be merged with

> 		a single [Maintainer]'s approval.

Reviewer 2: Same here, we require two approvals for all PRs.

* All required GitHub workflows have succeeded.
* Urgent fix can take exception as long as it has been actively communicated
	among [Maintainer]s.

Any [Maintainer] can merge the PR once the above criteria have been met.

[^1]: A qualified approval is a GitHub Pull Request review with "Approve"
	status from an OpenTelemetry Profiler [Approver] or [Maintainer].
[^2]: Trivial changes include: typo corrections, cosmetic non-substantive
	changes, documentation corrections or updates, dependency updates, etc.

## Approvers and Maintainers

> 
> ### Approvers
> 
> - [Christos Kalkanis](https://github.com/christos68k), Elastic
> - [Florian Lehner](https://github.com/florianl), Elastic
> - [Tim Rühsen](https://github.com/rockdaboot), Elastic
> 
> ### Maintainers
> 
> - [Dmitry Filimonov](https://github.com/petethepig), Pyroscope/Grafana-
> - [Felix Geisendörfer](https://github.com/felixge), Datadog
> - [Joel Höner ](https://github.com/athre0z), Elastic
> - [Timo Teräs](https://github.com/fabled)

Reviewer: Things change and so do memberships of such groups. To keep it more generic, https://github.com/orgs/open-telemetry/teams/ebpf-profiler-approvers and https://github.com/orgs/open-telemetry/teams/ebpf-profiler-maintainers should be mentioned here instead of personal accounts.
```suggestion
@open-telemetry/ebpf-profiler-approvers and @open-telemetry/ebpf-profiler-maintainers 
```

Author: While I'm happy to mention the groups and not the folks here, every other SIG does it like this.
And updating this list is part of the maintainer onboarding tasks.

https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/pull/1924/files#diff-2babc18ce7c6fdc68c4161df08fb505a258f0bce4dda17f081d7628b0afa04c7R64

Reviewer: Fair point - I wasn't aware of this additional manual step in this process.

# Contributing to opentelemetry-ebpf-profiler

The Profiling special interest group (SIG) meets regularly. See the
OpenTelemetry
[community](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community)
repo for information on this and other SIGs.

See the [public meeting
notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19UqPPPlGE83N37MhS93uRlxsP1_wGxQ33Qv6CDHaEp0/edit#heading=h.4rdgawyis2hd)
for a summary description of past meetings.

See the [calendar
group](https://groups.google.com/a/opentelemetry.io/g/calendar-profiling) to
get invited to meetings.

See the [#otel-profiles](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03J794L0BV)

> slack channel for discussions and questions.

Reviewer 4: Wondering whether we should move this down, into a dedicated new section, e.g. "Community". Starting the document with this may give the impression that one has to take part in these meetings in order to contribute?

		be consulted if there are any questions.

* The PR branch is up to date with the base branch it is merging into.
	* To ensure this does not block the PR, it should be configured to allow
		maintainers to update it.

* It has been open for review for at least one working day. This gives people
	reasonable time to review.
	* Trivial changes[^2] do not have to wait for one day and may be merged with
		a single [Maintainer]'s approval.

* All required GitHub workflows have succeeded.
* Urgent fix can take exception as long as it has been actively communicated
	among [Maintainer]s.

Any [Maintainer] can merge the PR once the above criteria have been met.

[^1]: A qualified approval is a GitHub Pull Request review with "Approve"
	status from an OpenTelemetry Profiler [Approver] or [Maintainer].
[^2]: Trivial changes include: typo corrections, cosmetic non-substantive
	changes, documentation corrections or updates, dependency updates, etc.

## Approvers and Maintainers

### Approvers

- [Christos Kalkanis](https://github.com/christos68k), Elastic
- [Florian Lehner](https://github.com/florianl), Elastic
- [Tim Rühsen](https://github.com/rockdaboot), Elastic

### Maintainers

> - [Dmitry Filimonov](https://github.com/petethepig), Pyroscope/Grafana-

Reviewer 4: Training `-` here: no sure if intentional?

> - [Dmitry Filimonov](https://github.com/petethepig), Pyroscope/Grafana-

Reviewer 4: Trailing `-` here: no sure if intentional?

```suggestion
- [Dmitry Filimonov](https://github.com/petethepig), Pyroscope/Grafana
```

- [Felix Geisendörfer](https://github.com/felixge), Datadog

> - [Joel Höner ](https://github.com/athre0z), Elastic

Reviewer 4: Space before comma

```suggestion
- [Joel Höner](https://github.com/athre0z), Elastic
```
